---
layout: page
title: About
date: 2014-01-01 12:00:00
showInNavigation: true
order: 1
---

# About

It was his arrival in Wellington, New Zealand, in April 2006 that marked a 
profound change in Max Patt√©'s life and work, best evidenced in his well known 
*Solace In The Wind* sculpture on the capital city's waterfront. Max describes 
this work and ones that followed as "emotional portraits" - inward looking and 
contemplative pieces that flow from his own decision to make the room and time 
in his life for his art. Some years on and his work can be found in private 
and public collections throughout the world.

Born and educated in Gloucestershire, England, in 1977, he studied at the 
Wimbledon School of Art in London (1997-2000), and was elected an associate of 
the Royal Society of British Sculptors in 2008. His skill with both animal and 
human form saw him embark on a successful career in film, television and 
theatre design. He has also worked internationally as a conservator of 
antiquities and contemporary art. Both of these career strands can be found in 
various forms within the work he now produces as an artist in his own right.

It was *Solace In The Wind* that marked the turning point in his development 
towards a true personal style. With its companion piece *Reflection* Max's 
work became the collectable preference of notable art collectors around the 
world. His sculpture is less about inspiring the masses than appealing to each 
individual's own responses. There is an undeniable physicality and power to 
his pieces, yet the dynamism resides in their style and pose rather than any 
overt "movement" in the form. Recognition of the common thread that runs 
between us all; moments of stillness, internalisation, quiet, self-reflection 
are what interest him. Evoking an emotion, a felt sense or a mood in the 
viewer through his work is paramount in the creation of his work. Max sculpts 
primarily in clay, then casts in iron, plaster and bronze, using both 
traditional and contemporary techniques. Experimenting with materials, 
textures and colours is an integral part of his work, and his working method. 
His close association with multi academy award winning Weta Workshop has 
allowed him to take these creative impulses and explore them using 
state-of-the-art facilities and technologies. 

The recognition of a universal connection combined with Max's constant 'play' 
and exploration with emerging technology and new media has more recently seen 
the evolution of his new series of *Lightworks*. Whilst the internal world is 
predominantly evidenced in Max's sculptures it is the external and universal 
on which the *Lightworks* draw. He describes these works as having their roots 
in sculpture and were born through the ancient and academic study of man, 
anatomy, proportion and our connection to all things. Da Vinci lays out for us 
in his *Vitruvian Man* - one of the most famous and instantly recognised works 
in history - the divine proportion of man. The widely unseen or unrecognised 
ratio of 1:1.618. "This divine and inherent ratio, not only being found in 
man; the proportions of the hand, radial fibres of the bone, spirals of DNA 
strands but also throughout nature, cosmology and even patterns in the stock 
market fascinates me. It is a mathematical cornerstone of existence that has a 
connection to almost everything we know and creates patterns everywhere we 
look that unite us all". These stories and concepts of universal connections 
are explored across various medium through Max's use of this ratio, colour, 
material, changing light, and dimension. Encouraging reflection, thought, a 
stillness or state of mind through objects that in the words borrowed from 
British sculptor Sir Anthony Caro aim to 'please the eye and feed the soul'.